Changes in Version 1.3-2

  o Fixed error in as_HLS(), which was passing 'ans' rather than
    'color' as the colour to convert (and that was producing not only
    wrong results, but random results because the values in 'ans' were
    not initialized).  Thanks to Thomas Julou for the report.


Changes in Version 1.3-1

  o Fixed erroneous use of "return" rather than "return()" in
    choose_palette()/hclwizard().


Changes in Version 1.3-0

  o In addition to the Tcl/Tk-based GUI for choose_palette() there is now
    a shiny-based GUI. choose_palette() by default still uses the Tcl/Tk
    version while hclwizard() is a new wrapper that by default calls the
    new shiny version.

  o New function specplot() that converts a given palette in hex codes
    to RGB and HCL coordinates and visualizes their spectrum as a line
    plot.

  o hex2RGB() now omits the alpha channel (if any) in the hex colors
    provided.


Changes in Version 1.2-7

  o Extended choose_palette() for sequential palettes with multiple hues:
    Now two palettes are included in the examples that are very close
    to "viridis" and "magma" from matplotlib in Python (also available
    in R via package "viridis")

  o Changed Depends/Imports/Suggests to conform with current R CMD check.


Changes in Version 1.2-6

  o Moved "tcltk" again from Imports to Suggests to facilitate usage of
    colorspace on platforms where tcltk is not available.


Changes in Version 1.2-5

  o Changed Depends/Imports/Suggests to conform with current R CMD check.


Changes in Version 1.2-4

  o Bug fix for choose_palette() when using palette functions with
    optional alpha channels.


Changes in Version 1.2-3

  o Alpha channel is preserved in desaturate for named colors (especially
    "transparent" and NA). (Reported by Simon Potter.)

  o Added alpha argument for all palette functions (see ?rainbow_hcl).
    
  o Small fixups for R CMD check.


Changes in Version 1.2-2

  o Names of colors are preserved in hex() and hex2RGB() now. (Reported
    by Richard Cotton.)


Changes in Version 1.2-1

  o If a new version of the dichromat package (> 1.2-4) with tritan
    support is found, this is interfaced in choose_palette().


Changes in Version 1.2-0

  o New Tcl/Tk-based GUI for choosing different types of palettes:
    qualitative (rainbow_hcl), single-hue sequential (sequential_hcl),
    multi-hue sequential (heat_hcl), and diverging (diverge_hcl). The
    GUI provides a wide collection of pre-stored palettes, easy
    manipulation of the corresponding arguments, illustration through
    a broad range of plot types (maps, heatmaps, variations of bar plots,
    scatter plots, and many more), emulation of desaturation and
    dichromatic vision, loading/saving palettes, etc.    

  o Bug fix in polarLAB_to_LAB conversion.

  o All .Call() calls now with PACKAGE = "colorspace".
  
  o Added some simple tests based on the examples and vignette.


Changes in Version 1.1-1

  o Added desaturate() function for removal of chroma in a given
    vector of colors.

  o Bug fix in HLS_to_RGB conversion for s == 0.


Changes in Version 1.1-0

  o Added "sRGB" colorspace.
    (Existing "RGB" colorspace is linearized "sRGB".)

  o Conversions to and from "HSV" and "HSL" can only occur
    from or to "RGB" or "sRGB" (because both "HSV" and "HSL"
    are relative colorspaces, meaning relative to a particular
    RGB colorspace).
    (Converting to or from "RGB" gives a different result 
     compared to conversion to or from "sRGB".)

  o All 'gamma' parameters in all R-level functions have been deprecated.
    (The "sRGB" colorspace has implicit gamma.)


Changes in Version 1.0-1

  o "Escaping RGBland" paper is now published Computational
    Statistics & Data Analysis as doi:10.1016/j.csda.2008.11.033.
    Citation and references updated accordingly.


Changes in Version 1.0-0

  o new version to accompany the "Escaping RGBland" paper accepted
    for publication in Computational Statistics & Data Analysis, see
    citation("colorspace")
    

Changes in Version 0.97

  o moved color palettes from vcd to colorspace,
    including vignette("hcl-colors")
  
  o added infrastructure for HLS color space

  o new CITATION file
