Bootstrap R Functions
=====================

Version 1.3; May 2011:

The main change is support for parallel computation in functions
boot(), censboot() and tsboot().

Many of the examples have been tidied up.


Version 1.2; March 2001:

This version corrects some minor errors in Version 1.0 of the code
distributed with the first printing of Davison and Hinkley (1997).
The author would like to thank those users who pointed out errors or
possible improvements to the code.  Any further errors found should be
reported to the author (Angelo Canty) for correction in the next
version.

The package contains the following functions, all of which
have online help available.

abc.ci		ABC confidence intervals
boot		Main bootstrap function
boot.array	Generate a bootstrap frequency/index array
boot.ci		Bootstrap simulation confidence intervals
censboot	Bootstrap for censored data
control		Control variate calculations
corr		Weighted form of correlation coefficient
cum3		Estimate the skewness
cv.glm		Cross-validation for generalized linear models
empinf		Calculate empirical influence values
envelope	Confidence envelopes for functions
exp.tilt	Exponential tilting
freq.array	Convert an index array into a frequency array
glm.diag	Diagnostics for generalized linear models
glm.diag.plots	Diagnostic plots for glm's
imp.moments	Importance resampling estimates of moments
imp.prob	Importance resampling estimates of probabilities
imp.quantile	Importance resampling estimates of quantiles
imp.weights	Weights for importance resampling
inv.logit	Inverse logit function
jack.after.boot	Jackknife after bootstrap plots
k3.linear	Linear skewness approximation
linear.approx	Linear approximation to a statistic
lines.saddle.distn  Lines method for a saddlepoint distribution object
logit		Logit of a proportion
norm.ci		Normal approximation confidence intervals
plot.boot	Plot method for a bootstrap object
print.boot	Print method for a bootstrap object
print.bootci	Print method for a bootstrap confidence interval object
print.saddle.distn  Print method for a saddlepoint distribution object
print.simplex	Print method for a simplex object
saddle		Simple and conditional saddlepoint calculations
saddle.distn	Approximate a distribution by saddlepoint
simplex		Tableau simplex method for linear programming
smooth.f	Frequency smoothing
tilt.boot	Tilted bootstrap
tsboot		Bootstrap for time series
var.linear	Linear variance approximation

The package also contains some items used in the practicals of
"Bootstrap Methods and Their Applications" by A.C. Davison and D.V. Hinkley
(1997, Cambridge University Press).  The objects are not intended to be used
except in the context of these practicals.  The objects are

cd4.nested	A nested bootstrap referred to in Practical 5.5
corr.nested	The statistic used in cd4.nested
EL.profile, EEF.profile, and lik.CI 
	functions defined for use in the practicals of chapter 10.
