Changes in 0.7-0

	o transform2 added

Changes in 0.6-7

	o list[...] <- added for enabling multiple return values
     
Changes in 0.6-6

	o bug fix. strapplyc failed with "R" engine.

	o new read.pattern function

	o vignettes have been moved to vignette directory to satisfy R 3.1,0

Changes in 0.6-5

	o the Vignettes menu has been removed removing any dependence on Zelig.

Changes in 0.6-4

	o in interactive Windows sessions under Rgui a Vignettes menu is created
	  (or added to if present) provided the Zelig package is available

	o a scoping bug in fn$ was fixed

	o gsubfn was attempting to access the tcltk package even if the
	  gsubfn.engine = "R" option was set. Fixed.

	o changes to accommodate R-2.16: (i) a non-ascii character in the
	  gsubfn-si demo was removed (ii) rep on a pairlist is no longer 
	  supported by R but used by fn$ so a workaround was implemented

	o modified demos: (i) gsubfn-chron demo simplified based on latest
	  read.zoo, (ii) modified gsubfn-gries to use lipsum.txt (which was
	  added), (iii) mu in gsubfn-si changed to u so its all ASCII.

Changes in 0.6-3

	o strapplyc could not find tcltk.  Fixed.

	o paste0 has been implemented in the base of R as of R 2.15.0 so it has 
	  been removed from this version of sqldf.

Changes in 0.6-2

	o package is now byte compiled hence depends on 2.14.0 or higher

	o if tcltk can be loaded it is loaded at startup.  If not, the gsubfn.engine
	  option is set to "R", a message is given and subsequent calls will use 
	  slower R code instead of tcltk.  Previously this check was done at run
	  time in the individual functions.

	o strapplyc now calls strapply if gsubfn.engine = "R"

	o now uses withVisible instead of internal function eval.with.vis.  This
	  internal change was made to satisfy R 2.15.0 and should not affect users.

	o added more unit tests

Changes in 0.6

	o strapplyc added, a fast tcl-only version of strapply specialized to FUN=c.

	o bug fix.  perl was ignored when engine = "tcl".

	o unit test suite added.  demo("gsubfn-unitTests") will run it.

	o added NAMESPACE

Changes in 0.5-6

	o bug fix. backref argument was being interpreted incorrectly in "R" engine.

Changes in 0.5-5

	o bug fix - engine option was not being interpreted correctly.  

Changes in 0.5-4

	o strapply with engine = "tcl" (the default) now runs much faster on long 
	  strings

Changes in 0.5-3

	o new argument, empty, on strapply

	o gsubfn now has an engine argument.  This was already the case
	  with strapply.

	o new global option "gsubfn.engine" whose value can be "tcl" or "R". It is
	  used as the default value for the gsubfn and strappy engine argument.  If
	  the option is not set then gsubfn and strapply default to the "tcl" 
	  regular expression engine if the current R installation has tcltk 
	  capability and "R" otherwise.

	o gsubfn pattern is no longer parenthesized internally if (1) engine = "tcl"
	  or if (2) engine = "R" and backref > 0.  See the example of replacing 
	  double characters in ?gsubfn .

	o if the function in gsubfn or strapply has an `&` argument then backref
	  will be taken to be negative and the entire match passed through that arg.

	o in as.function.formula if any of ..1 through ..9 are found as free
	  variables then ... is used as a trailng argument instead. If `&` is a
	  free variable then it is placed at the beginning of the argument list.

Changes in 0.5-2

	o bug fixes

Changes in 0.5-1

	o fixes to pass R CMD CHECK

	o package no longer depends on tcltk but it is still suggested.  If R 
	  installation does not have tcltk capability then strapply falls back 
	  to R engine.

Changes in 0.5-0

	o faster strapply based on tcl interface.  engine argument can choose
	  between it and older version of strapply.

Changes in 0.3-9

	o removed some dead code.  Thanks to Wacek Kusnierczyk.

Changes in 0.3-8

	o minor improvements in gsubfn-package.Rd

	o fixed bug in match.funfn

	o heuristic to detect the number of back references (used when backref
	  is not specified) now uses -k where k is the number of non-escaped
	  left parens (whereas previously it used -k where k was the number of 
	  left parens whether escaped or not).

Changes in 0.3-7

	o R CMD CHECK fixes

	o if replacement object is a list and match not found in that list then
	  no replacement is done

Changes in 0.3-6

	o bug fixes: fn$force("$x") failed if variable name was x as shown here

	o bug fixes: f <- function() { aaa <- "X"; fn$cat("abc$aaa def\n") }; f()
	  failed.

	o internals: eval.with.vis() replaced in $.fn.  Now using withVisible().
	  This change requires R 2.5 or later.

	o the replacement object in gsubfn can be a list as well

	o the replacement object in strapply can be a character string or list
	  as well

	o if backref= is omitted on gsubfn or strapply it passes the backreferences
	  if any (but not the entire match) or if there are no back references
	  it passes the entire match.  Thus the default has changed in the case
	  that (1) there are one or more backreferences in the regular expression 
	  and (2) backref was not specified.  This should eliminate the need to 
	  specify backref in most circumstances.  Note that if there are no 
	  backreferences in your regular expression or if backref= had been
	  specified there is no change thus in most cases there will be no change.

Changes in 0.3-5

	o fixed bug in demo index

	o eliminated dependence on methods package (previously only
	  dependence was use of 'is')

Changes in 0.3-4

	o fixed typo

Changes in 0.3-3

	o changed quantreg example to reflect change in engel data set

Changes in 0.3-2

	o revised gsubfn-packages.Rd

	o fn$ now performs quasi-perl style interpolation 

	o cati, cati0 removed since fn$cat and fn$cat0 can be used.

	o rules for which formulas are translated and which character 
	  strings are interpolated have been changed and simplified:
	  1. formulas specified with ~~ (double ~) are translated to functions
	  2. character strings beginning with \1 are translated to functions
	  3. if the above rules result in no translation/interpolation
	     then all formulas are translated if there are any formulas
	     or, if not, then all character strings are interpolated
	     In most cases rule #3 is used.

	o fn$f now returns invisibly if f does (thanks to Duncan Murdoch
	  for eval.with.vis)

Changes in 0.3-1

	o fixed initialization bug in strapply

	o added proto examples to ?gsubfn and ?strapply

Changes in 0.3-0

	o gsubfn and strapply now can take proto arguments in addition
	  to character strings, functions and formulas

	o vignette added

	o home page abbreviated since most info already in vignette


Changes in 0.2-3

	o increased string lengths accepted by gsubfn by eliminating
	  use of the R parse() command. [Thanks to Stefan Th. Gries
	  for reporting problem.]

	o fixed bug in one of the examples in example(gsubfn)

	o strapply fixes

Changes in 0.2-2

	o added combine= argument to strapply

	o fixed bug associated with using double quotes in gsub (which
	  also could affect strapply and cati).  [Thanks to Stefan Th.
	  Gries for reporting problem.]

Changes in 0.2-1 

	o added "note difference" example in strapply

	o letters, LETTERS and pi excluded from args so 
	  x ~ sin(x*pi/180) can be shortened to ~ sin(x*pi/180)
	  and 
	  x ~ LETTERS[x] can be reduced to ~ LETTERS[x]
	  (previously it would have added pi and LETTERS to arg
	  lists in these two examples)

	o improved as.function.formula.Rd

	o fixes to eliminate R CMD CHECK warnings under R 2.5.0
 
	o bug fix in $.fn.  If args and match.call order was different
	  it could fail previously.

	o new demos: gsubfn-gries.R, gsubfn-chron.R, gsubfn-si.R

	o THANKS file

Changes in 0.2-0 

	o match.funfn

	o as.function.formula improvements

	o $.fn

	o added numerous examples of $.fn to home page

Changes in 0.1-5

	o reference to cat0 missing from gsubfn-package.Rd

	o added digit separation example to strapply.Rd

	o added config file example to strapply.Rd

	o in strapply simplify= can be a function

	o replacement= in gsubfn and strapply can be a formula

	o new internal function as.function.formula

	o new home page and svn repository (URL in DESCRIPTION file)

Changes in 0.1-4

	o added cati, cati0, cat0 and paste0

	o added USE.NAMES argument to gsubfn

	o added gsubfn-cut demo

	o added repx example to gsubfn.Rd

	o added SI scale example to gsubfn.Rd

	o perl=, etc. args were not being passed to gsub

	o added moving window example to strapply.Rd

Changes in 0.1-3

	o enhanced gsubfn backref= argument

	o fixed bug in strapply

Changes in 0.1-2

	o cati added

	o updated DESCRIPTION and gsubfn-package.Rd

Changes in 0.1-1 

	o strapply added

	o gsubfn-package.Rd added

Changes in 0.1-0

	o initial release


